---
title: June 2023
---

:::caution
This release contains **breaking changes**
:::

## New Features

- Json Schema Emitter
- New decimal types
- Support for using doc comments instead of the @doc decorator
- New `valueof` type constraint modifier for type literals
- Lazy evaluation of emitter configuration
- Signature Help for Template Arguments and other IDE improvements

### New Decimal Types

Added support for `decimal` and `decimal128` types

```typespec
model Foo {
  price: decimal;
  shortPrice: decimal128;
}
```

These types represent values stored in decimal format which are often used in financial calculations to avoid rounding errors introduced by binary floating point formats. `decimal` can store values of any size and precision, while `decimal128` corresponds to the 128 bit decimal floating point format described by IEEE 754.

### Support for Doc Comments

Doc comments (`/** */`) will be treated as the documentation for types, unless there is an explicit `@doc` decorator

```typespec
/** This will now be the documentation for model Foo */
model Foo {
  name: string;
}
```

### New `valueof` type constraint modifier to require type literals

Templates and decorators can now constrain arguments to literal types. For example, the following template constraint:

```typespec
model Foo<T extends valueof string> {
  @doc(T)
  name: string;
}
```

would match quoted literal strings, "this", as well as references to enum values. Templates and decorators that require string values should change to using this new formulation.

### Allow lazy evaluation of emitter config

- Validate linter configuration only for linters that are executing. This removes warnings for emitters that are configured but not available in a particular compilation.

### Enable Signature Help for Template Arguments

- Template completion will now have similar help in IDE language server as decorators currently do.

### Show documentation Comments on Aliases in IDE Language Tooling

- Documentation comments will show up in the IDE, just as documentation comments for other library types.

### Ensure a dev release for all packages

- Packages with no changes will now release with a `-dev.0` version in dev releases.

### Json Schema Emitter

- Core packages now contain a Json Schema emitter `@typespec/json-schema`

## Bug Fixes

-`tspconfig.yaml` should always get resolved relative to the entrypoint.

- `Array` and `Record` doc comments are treated as developer documentation.

- Fixed formatting of comment between decorator and `op` statement.

- Decorators on operations may reference the same operation, or may reference an operation that references this operation.

```typespec
interface FooOperations {
  @nextPageOperation(getNextPage) // allowed
  getNextPage(pageLink: url): Page<Foo>;
}
```

- Fix validation for `unixTimeStamp`.

- Fix diagnostic for `intrinsic type expected` to not assume `string` as the required type.

- Fix error message for `@encode` errors.

- Fix error handling when template is missing or invalid in `tsp init`.

- Emitter framework: uppercase type argument type names when constructing a declaration name from a template instantiation.

- Add reference documentation for missing decorators.

- Remove dependency on `node-fetch`.

- Remove inaccurate output directory message from compilation success.

- Allow template resolution over http redirects for `tsp init` templates.

- Improve signature help for an unterminated argument list.

## New Deprecations

- Templates that use decorators with the `valueof` constraint will receive a warning if their input types are not similarly constrained.

```typespec
model Foo<T extends string> {
  @doc(T) // valueof constraint here will cause a warning
  id: uuid;
}
```

should be changed to apply the valueof constraint to their parameters that are passed to such decorators:

```typespec
model Foo<T extends valueof string> {
  @doc(T) // no warning
  id: uuid;
}
```

- The `object` type is deprecated. Templates and decorators should use TypeSpec.Reflection.Model to indicate a model contraint. In specs, `{}` designates and empty model, `unknown[]` indicates and empty array, and `Record<unknown>` indicates a keyed type with unknown property types.

## Breaking Changes

- Decorators that require literal type value marshalling MUST change to using the `valueof` keyword.

```typespec
extern dec myDecorator(target: Type, name: string);
```

Must be changed to use the valueof decorator

```typespec
extern dec myDecorator(target: Type, name: valueof string);
```

- Arrays are no longer assignable to an empty model (or object)

- Remove `@format(\"url\") from url scalar. OpenAPI emitters will still emit the appropriate format, emitters should rely on the scalar type to determine how to process the url type, not the format string.
