---
title: April 2023
---

# Release Notes April 2023 (2023-04-11)

:::danger
This release contains **breaking changes**
:::

## Breaking Changes

### Versioning

Removed deprecated versioning symbols.

- Removed `@versionedDependency` decorator. Use `@useDependency` instead.
- Removed `getRenamedFromVersion`. Use `getRenamedFromVersions` instead.
- Removed `getRenamedFromOldName`. Use `getNameAtVersion` instead.
- Removed `getAddedOn`, `addedAfter`, `getRemovedOn` and `removedOnOrBefore`. Use `existsAtVersion` instead.
- Removed `renamedAfter`. Use `hasDifferentNameAtVersion` instead.

### Removed `zonedDateTime` and replaced with `utcDateTime` and `offsetDateTime`

To disambiguate important time concepts and encourage best practice behavior in representing date-time types we
removed `zonedDateTime` which was being used to represent a time with offset, and replaced it with two new types that are more precisely defined:

- `utcDateTime` which represents a precise instant in time. This type should be used to represent time values given in coordinated universal time (UTC) and unix timestamps. This is the preferred mechanism for capturing dateTime in most service specifications.
- `offsetDateTime` which represents a time with offset. Note that while this time contains an offset from UTC, it does not contain any additional time zone information.

#### Change instances of `zonedDateTime` to `utcDateTime`

##### Old

```typespec
model MyModel {
  createdAt: zonedDateTime;
}
```

#### New

```typespec
model MyModel {
  createdAt: utcDateTime;
}
```

#### Use the (experimental) Migration tool to make this change

The (experimental) migration tool will automatically migrate instances of `zonedDateTime` to `utcDateTime`. To perform all migrations in a TypeSpec or Cadl specification package, execute:

```typespec
npx @typespec/migrate
```

If you would like to execute from a different folder or don't have a package.json that indicates compiler package versions, please see command line options:

```typespec
npx @typespec/migrate --help
```
