---
title: October 2023
---

# Release Notes October 2023 (2023-10-11)

:::danger
This release contains **breaking changes**
:::

## New Features

### `@typespec/compiler` New Features

- The `never` type is now assignable to all types.
- Allow constraint decorators (e.g. `@minValue`, `@maxValue`, `@maxLength`, etc.) to be applied to nullable types.
- Add support for `@returns` and `@errors` doc comment tags.
  - `@returns`(or `@returnsDoc` decorator) can be used to describe the success return types of an operation.
  - `@errors`(or `@errorsDoc` decorator) can be used to describe the error return types of an operation.
- Skip emit of `deprecated` diagnostic for a type reference that is used in a deprecated declaration statement.
- Improve website performance by removing `decorators` export and importing decorators individually.

### `@typespec/http` New Features

- Add support for `@returns` and `@errors` doc comment tags.
- Add support for status code ranges for http responses. **Change to API** Http responses can now also return a `HttpStatusCodeRange` object for their status codes.
- Emit error diagnostic when multiple properties on a response model have the `@statusCode` decorator.

### `@typespec/json-schema` New Features

- Disable folding of serialized yaml if line is above 80 characters.

### `@typespec/openapi` New Features

- Remove `@typespec/rest` as a `peerDependency`.
- Support Http Status Code ranges.
- **Breaking Change** Changed namespace from `OpenAPI` to `TypeSpec.OpenAPI`.

### `@typespec/openapi3` New Features

- Remove `@typespec/rest` as a `peerDependency`.
- Add support for constraints on union types.
- Add support for `@returns` and `@errors` doc comment tags.
- Add support for http status code ranges.

### `@typespec/protobuf` New features

- Added support for emitting documentation comments in protobuf specifications.

### `@typespec/rest` New features

- Remove peer dependency on `@typespec/http` library.

## Bug Fixes

### `@typespec/compiler` Bug Fixes

- Fix: Correct handling of hyphens in doc comments.
- Fix: Colorization of line comments extending into the next line.
- Fix: Crash when using parentheses in directives.
- Fix: Allow assigning negative and 0 values to `float64` types.
- Fix: Return non-zero format code when tsp formatting fails.
- Fix: Correct formatting of anonymous unions to exclude leading ':' character.
- Fix: Unions and Enum members are now formatted following the same rules as model properties. An extra line will be added between members if the member is annotated with a decorator, directive or doc comment.
- Fix: Correct formatting of comments between a directive or doc and its node.
- Fix: `tsp init` was not creating the `tspconfig.yaml` file for templates that specified it.
- Fix: `tsp init` will create a placeholder `tspconfig.yaml` file for templates that don't specify an explicit one.
- Fix: `tsp init` was ignoring the `files` specified in an init template.
- Fix: Language Server wasn't loading the `tspconfig.yaml` correctly resulting in some options being dropped, like the linter configuration.
- Fix: Allow `null` to be assigned as a default value.
- Fix: Using `TypeSpec.Xyz` namespace shouldn't require the `TypeSpec Prefix`.

### `@typespec/openapi3` Bug Fixes

- Fix: Correctly generate discriminated union mapping property with multiple visibilities.
- Fix: Crash when assigning a numeric default to a union.
- Fix: Using format `ssv` or `pipes` in `@header` produced an invalid OpenAPI3 schema. It will now change the type to string, ignore the format, and emit a warning diagnostic.
- Fix: Allow using null as a default value.
- Fix: Allow use of `@oneOf` on model properties.
- Fix: Correct representation of CSV format.
- Fix: Remove incorrect `statusCode` field for operations with shared routes.

### `@typespec/rest` Bug Fixes

- Fix: `@key` can now appear on the base model of a resource.

### `@typespec/versioning` Bug Fixes

- Ensure that use of `@renamedFrom` does not result in duplicate properties on a model.

## Breaking Changes

### `@typespec/http` Breaking Changes

- Http responses can now also return a `HttpStatusCodeRange` object for their status codes. Emitters will need to handle the additional status code content when processing status codes.
- Emit error diagnostic when multiple properties on a response model have the `@statusCode` decorator.

### `@typespec/openapi` Breaking Changes

- Changed namespace from `OpenAPI` to `TypeSpec.OpenAPI`.
